---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lintouch Development Weekly News
http://lintouch.org
May 14th, 2004
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is the eleventh issue of the news from the Lintouch Land.

The new version of _libwtngtemplates_ - The Lintouch Templates Handling
library has been released[1]. This version 1.0.3 fixes the font size
handling bug. Fonts specified within a Lintouch Project looked differently
when the project was displayed on Windows than if it was displayed on Linux.
Investigation revealed that we treated the specified font size as being
point-based instead of pixel-based, which resulted in recomputation of the
font size according to the DPI resolution of the screen where project had
been displayed. Now all coordinates and sizes specified within a Lintouch
Project are pixel-based and should look the same no matter where the project
is displayed.

    1. http://lintouch.org/blog/latest

Patrik finally (after some headaches) got the Lintouch Runtime running on
the Qt Embedded in version 3.1.2 shipped by ongoing stable release of
Debian/GNU Linux. Detailed instructions and porting report[2] were sent
along with the necessary patches to the _lintouch-dev_ mailinglist[3]. It
must be decided now how the necessary changes will be handled in order to
maintain the QTE port effectively. The preliminary screenshots of the
Runtime running on QTE are available[4][5].

    2. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2004-May/000525.html
    3. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2004-May/thread.html
    4. http://www.swac.cz/~modesto/screenshots/lintouch-runtime-qte.png
    5. http://www.swac.cz/~modesto/screenshots/lintouch-runtime2-qte.png

Hynek finished first version of his _Hilscher Plugin_ for Lintouch Server,
which enables the server to access all industrial buses supported by
Hilscher Fieldbus Cards. The Plugin uses CIF driver provided by Hilscher[6]
and uses SWIG Generator[7] to make the CIF API accessible to Python based
Server Plugin API. The Plugin has not been however released to public yet.

    6. http://hilscher.com/download/software/cifv2000.tgz
    7. http://www.swig.org

First version of Lintouch Editor, the application for easy creation of
Lintouch Projects is scheduled for next Friday, 21st of May. The editor will
be freely available in the Light Edition as a binary for Linux and Windows
based systems. Full featured version will be available for licensed users
only.

Jiri started to experiment with opensource diagram editor called Dia[8] and
has been exploring the possibilities of making Dia able to create and edit
Lintouch Projects. He can already convert one page of elementary Dia Shapes
(texts, rectangles) into one Lintouch Panel containing appropriate objects
from the Common Template Library. Future work should examine the possibility
of creating multiple panels from one Dia page and also automatic mapping of
Dia Shapes onto Lintouch Templates and vice versa. The code is for now also
kept internal.

    8. http://www.gnome.org/projects/dia/

That's all folks for this week, if you have any comments, corrections or
ideas to be published, feel free to contact me directly[0].

    0. mailto:mman@swac.cz.

vim: set et tw=76:
$Id: ldwn-2004-05-14.txt,v 1.2 2004/05/21 08:27:36 mman Exp $
