---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lintouch Development Weekly News
http://lintouch.org
January 9th, 2004
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Welcome to the fourth issue of the Lintouch Development Weekly Newsletter.

Everyone is hopefully fresh and full of new ideas so it's the right time to
announce that the last month of development before the _code freeze_ is just
beginning[1]. During this month all conceptual and design decisions must be
made. Format of all project related configuration files must be finished and
frozen as well. Concerning the project configuration files only one thing is
missing: the interconnection of IOPins to Project Variables. Note that the
proposal is in place[2] for more than three months but no code has yet been
written to prove that the syntax is good.

    1. http://lintouch.org/blog/roadmap
    2. http://lintouch.org/cvs/lintouch/docs/specs/lintouch-project.html#project-view.xml

Not everyone was sleeping during the Christmas, namely Hynek, who found a
nice implementation[3] of ModBus TCP/IP Communication Protocol[4] written in
Java. We will use this implementation to provide software infrastructure for
integration testing and demonstration purposes.

   3. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2004-January/000266.html
   4. http://www.modbus.org

Hynek additionally cleared his TODO list and reimplemented SharedPtr[5] to
be thread safe[6]. SharedPtr is a nice C++ template class that makes the
life of C++ programmer at least a bit more shiny and peaceful. The official
release of this new version will be made after some testing period which
will prove everything works as expected.

   5. http://lintouch.org/blog/projects#sharedptr
   6. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2003-December/000265.html

Lintouch Server initial import[7] was made. As announced in the previous
newsletter, Lintouch Server will be written entirely in Python programming
language[8] in a hope that it will make the development and future
enhancements easier.

   7. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-cvs/2004-January/000770.html
   8. http://www.python.org

And last but not least I'd like to thank all the members of the Lintouch
Development Team in Germany, India and Czech Republic for their good work
hoping our collaboration will continue in the same friendly manner during
the Year 2004 as well. Thank You!

That's all folks for this week, if you have any comments, corrections or
ideas to be published, feel free to contact me directly[0].

    0. mailto:mman@swac.cz.

vim: set et tw=76:
$Id: ldwn-2004-01-09.txt,v 1.1 2004/01/09 08:55:36 mman Exp $
