---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lintouch Development Weekly News
http://lintouch.org
January 24th, 2004
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Welcome to the sixth issue of the Lintouch Development Weekly Newsletter
codenamed "One week to freeze..."

Lintouch Specifications[1] ready for freeze. Since the first issue of the
specifications back in September, several small changes had to be done to
communication protocol and overall project structure. Now we can say that
time has shown what was initially designed well and what not. During the
testing month of February the specifications will be cleaned up and printable
versions will be prepared.

    1. http://lintouch.org/blog/projects/lintouch

Patrik was working hard to bring Wintouch Legacy templates up to date with
new Template API announced last week. After some small gotchas the templates
within a library work once again and can be used for testing.

Communication protocol library _libwtngcp_ has been touched and updated
after almost five months to conform to the updated protocol specification.
To ease usability of this C written library in various environments such as
Python, C++ QT, and possibly others, I've decided to take socket management
entirely out of the library and provide a lot more simplified API.

Several parts of the _libwtngcp_ are unimplemented at the moment, but API is
frozen and Python bindings which are hosted within unreleased _python-wtng_
package are 90% ready[2]. Only small enhancements are missing, these are
however not blocking _python-wtng_ to be used in a production environment.

    2. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-cvs/2004-January/000932.html

Huge progress has been made on the server side. Lintouch Server is already
able to serve given zipped project via HTTP to Lintouch Runtimes[3], open
given project and determine which Plugins has to be loaded and instantiated.
It can already manage client connections and interaction among clients and
plugins. Lintouch Server highly depends on _python-wtng_ bindings which do
the dirty low-level time-critical stuff.

    3. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-cvs/2004-January/000890.html

Since Python makes you more productive when writing small but useful tools,
jbar started to hack on a small Python based GUI-less Lintouch Runtime which
will be used for testing purposes.

Lintouch Runtime is continuously being polished. The interaction between
Runtime and communication library has been discussed[4] and will be
implemented soon.

    4. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2004-January/000336.html

Lot of work is happening on the Editor front as well. Editor is able to load
template libraries, add views and panels, instantiate (read: place on a
panel) templates, change their properties, save whole work to the .zip file,
albeit with some small syntactic errors, which, when fixed by hand lead to a
project that is loadable by Runtime. Good work from our colleagues at
India.

That's all folks for this week, if you have any comments, corrections or
ideas to be published, feel free to contact me directly[0].

    0. mailto:mman@swac.cz.

vim: set et tw=76:
$Id: ldwn-2004-01-24.txt,v 1.1 2004/01/24 12:36:15 mman Exp $
