---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lintouch Development Weekly News
http://lintouch.org
January 27th, 2005
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Welcome to the nineteenth issue of the LDWN.

Lintouch is in SVN. I am proud to announce, that all the sources produced by
the Lintouch Team and needed to compile Lintouch have been moved to the new
SVN based repository[1]. They have been cleaned up, and compile and run fine
under Linux. The work is in progress to compile them cleanly under Windows
again. The windows build system will use MinGW compiler suite[2] (basically
GCC port to windows).

    1. https://lintouch.org/repos/lintouch
    2. http://www.mingw.org

Windows packaging made easy. Jbar has been working hard to get
_mingw-package_[3] to the super stable state, and we must say that he has
succeeded. All Lintouch dependencies (cppunit, log4cpp, apr, sharedptr,
swaloun-framework) are already packaged under windows and the packaging
process is very similar (if not the 100% same) as under Linux.

    3. https://lintouch.org/repos/lintouch/mingw-package/trunk

Template Libraries reorganized. Lintouch 1.4 will be shipped with the two
template libraries. *Display*[4] template library will contain Lamps, Chart,
Number, Tester, Meter, basically all templates used to display values of
different types in different manners. *Input*[5] template library will
contain Button, LineInput, and Slider template. These can be used to change
values of different types.

    4. https://lintouch.org/repos/lintouch/lintouch/trunk/src/template-libraries/ltl-display
    5. https://lintouch.org/repos/lintouch/lintouch/trunk/src/template-libraries/ltl-input

Generator Plugin[6] enhanced. As of now, the Generator server plugin is able to
generate 0/1 bit changes, and numerical sequences. The frequency can be
adjusted.

    6. https://lintouch.org/repos/lintouch/lintouch/trunk/src/server-plugins/lsp-basic

Lintouch 1.3 in preparation. As soon as the windows builders finish the
windows installer, the 1.3 (unstable) release of Lintouch will be
made. It will contain ability to bind templates to the variables and will
allow the users to produce fully functioning projects using Loopback and
Generator plugins.

That's all folks for this week, if you have any comments, corrections or
ideas to be published, feel free to contact me directly[0].

    0. mailto:mman@swac.cz.

vim: set et tw=76:
$Id: template.txt,v 1.1 2003/12/04 12:42:51 mman Exp $
