---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lintouch Development Weekly News
http://lintouch.org
May 28th, 2004
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Welcome to the thirteenth issue of the Lintouch Weekly Newsletter.

Yet another polishing of Production Line Simulation Project, which is from
now on called _Rollenbahn Simulation Project_ was done by Jiri. I have taken
screenshots of this project along with our older _Network Monitoring_ and
_Weather Monitoring_ projects and published them to the web[1].

    1. http://lintouch.org/blog/screenshots

The latest remaining problem causing Lintouch to display fonts incorrectly
on Qt Embedded was resolved[2]. Qt Embedded does not like to display fonts
when their pixel size is specified instead of point size. Patrik sent
detailed report about the situation and added simple guide[3] explaining how
to use truetype fonts from Qt Embedded based application. Additionally he
created screenshot[4] of Lintouch running under Qt Embedded virtual
framebuffer server our Installation Verifier project. We can say Lintouch is
Qt Embedded ready[5].

    2. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2004-May/000540.html
    3. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2004-May/000545.html
    4. http://www.swac.cz/~modesto/screenshots/ltqteiv2.png
    5. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2004-May/000544.html

Porting to embedded world continues. During this week the Lintouch Server
has been for the first time run on the Motorola PowerPC 853e based board
with 64MB of RAM using Linux Kernel 2.4.20 with NFS mounted root file system.
I have sent in detailed installation report[6]. Now effort has to be
concentrated on stripping all unnecessary parts of environment used to
compile lintouch server to really see how much space it will need.

    6. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2004-May/000546.html

Editor having problems to display transparent templates. The latest
bigger issue of Lintouch Editor turned out to be not so simple to implement.
The code handling transparency of templates which is in CVS is working in
90% of cases well, but can not be considered _rock solid_. Some hacks has
been used to implement it which result in bad (if not even poor) performance
when moving or resizing big templates. Next week will show whether this
feature can be included into the upcoming 1.0 release of editor or whether
it will be postponed for future versions.

That's all folks for this week, if you have any comments, corrections or
ideas to be published, feel free to contact me directly[0].

    0. mailto:mman@swac.cz.

vim: set et tw=76:
$Id: ldwn-2004-05-28.txt,v 1.1 2004/05/28 21:25:34 mman Exp $
