---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lintouch Development Weekly News
http://lintouch.org
May 2nd, 2005
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Welcome to the twentieth issue of the LDWN.

It has been awhile since the last report from Lintouch Team. We believe it
is the right time to inform you about the latest and greatest from the
Lintouch Land.

Python not needed anymore, aka Lintouch Server written in C. It took some 7
man days to take existing Lintouch libraries _libltfsm_, _libltvariables_,
_libltcp_, and very cool APR + APR Util[1] library to reimplement Lintouch
Server while keeping the list of supported features untouched.

    1. http://apr.apache.org

Lintouch Server now takes less than 100kb of the hard drive space (without
libc + APR + Linux itself) which makes it suitable for low-storage-space
devices. Lintouch Server Plugins have to be written in C from now on. We
have already reimplemented demonstration _Loopback_ and _Generator_ plugins
and the work on _ModbusTCPMaster_ and _ModbusTCPSlave_ plugins is going on
right now.

Lintouch Editor received UI polishing related to move/resize selection
handles used to manipulate templates. The handles are now drawn outside of
the template area and allow templates to be resized to very small sizes.
Moreover the handles are now always visible and can not be obscured with
other templates. This was the case with Lintouch Editor 1.4 and it was one
of the main drawbacks while handling complicated configurations of multiple
overlying templates.

Lintouch _SNMP_ Server Plugin will allow the Lintouch to periodically poll
SNMP manageable devices and obtain string/numerical/boolean typed OIDs and
visualize them with templates. The pilot net-snmp[2] based implementation is
already available in SVN[3].

    2. http://www.net-snmp.org
    3. https://lintouch.org/repos/lintouch/lsp-snmp

Lintouch _Exec_ Server Plugin[4] will allow the user to periodically execute
configured commands at the server machine and grab their return value
(and/or their output) much the same way Nagios[5] is doing its network checks.

    4. https://lintouch.org/repos/lintouch/lsp-exec
    5. http://www.nagios.org

Both of these plugins are scheduled to be available for Linux and Windows
within Lintouch 1.6.

Lintouch Qwt Template Library is being worked on. It will make the widgets
from Qwt Library[6] available as Lintouch Templates.

    6. http://qwt.sourceforge.net

Lintouch 1.6 is scheduled to be available beginning of July 2005. We are
stepping aside from our standard 6-months-per-stable-release plan and we
would like to get 1.6 out as soon as possible.

Until then the adventurous and living-on-the-bleeding-edge-like people can
try out our automatically generated nighly snapshots[7]. They are verified
to compile under Linux and can be useful if you want to taste what will be
in 1.6.

    7. http://builder.lintouch.org/~mman/snapshots

That's all folks for this week, if you have any comments, corrections or
ideas to be published, feel free to contact me directly[0].

    0. mailto:mman@swac.cz.

vim: set et tw=76:
$Id: template.txt,v 1.1 2003/12/04 12:42:51 mman Exp $
