---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lintouch Development Weekly News
http://lintouch.org
December 12th, 2003
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Welcome to the second issue of the Lintouch Development Weekly Newsletter.
This week was rather calm in terms of lines of code produced but
nevertheless important things and drastic changes happened that you should be
aware of.

jbar and patrik pointed out during our private discussion that Layout of a
Template, which defines how a Template is painted and which in long words
would be called a _Graphical Representation_ of a Template should probably
not be called _Layout_, since this word is misleading. We have chosen
another name which according to our ideas suits the purpose better. So from
now on we refer to a graphical representation of a template as to its
_Skin_. All sources in a CVS has been updated[1] and patch for wtng-Editor
was generated[2].

    1. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-cvs/2003-December/000662.html
    2. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2003-December/000222.html

Another conceptual change was that we decided[3] to drop support for
Skin-specific properties. Original idea was that every template defines set
of properties which alter the look and behavior of a template. Because some
skins of a template could be more complicated than others (in terms of
possible customization) one was able to define also properties which were
valid only for a specific skin of a template. A workaround how to
distinguish which properties are global (in terms of a template) and which
are skin specific has been proposed[4].

    3. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2003-December/000214.html
    4. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2003-December/000218.html

Shivaji generated the first wtng-Editor coding report[5] and I was able for
the first time to launch the wtng-Editor, create new project and play with
some templates on a panel. The result looks nice. Hopefully I'll be able to
generate some screenshots of Runtime and Editor in action and put them on
the web.

    5. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2003-December/000176.html

Lintouch Specifications have been slightly updated (for example Wintouch New
Generation term was replaced by Lintouch everywhere) and have been uploaded
to the lintouch.org for public consumption[6]. However the license under
which they should be published is not yet clear to me, so I intentionally
left them under proprietary license which prohibits everything except
reading them of course.

    6. http://lintouch.org/blog/projects/lintouch

Since we had rather hot[7] discussion about where and how to use assert(3)
and I've found another inappropriate use of assert within a text_on_canvas
module I'm announcing a new "best article on assert" contest. So any
articles you find useful and explaining well the problematic on assert shall
be submitted to lintouch-dev[8]. You are of course welcome to write your
own.

    7. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2003-December/000157.html
    8. mailto:lintouch-dev@lintouch.org

jbar has updated[9] _ProjectAsyncBuilder_ from _libwtngproject_ to support
simulated download of local files through file:/// URLs. ProjectAsyncBuilder
is therefore from now on the preferred way for _Project_ construction on the
runtime side. He also developed an intentionally-slow-http-server[10] which
will be used for testing of the Runtime in network-extreme conditions.

    9. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-cvs/2003-December/000630.html
    10. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-cvs/2003-December/000638.html

That's all folks for this week, if you have any comments, corrections or
ideas to be published, feel free to contact me directly[0].

    0. mailto:mman@swac.cz.

vim: set et tw=76:
$Id: ldwn-2003-12-12.txt,v 1.1 2003/12/12 10:44:20 mman Exp $
