---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lintouch Development Weekly News
http://lintouch.org
July 31st, 2004
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Welcome to the fifteenth issue of the Lintouch Weekly Newsletter.

As you can see it is already almost two months since the last issue of LDWN
has been published. We hope you are enjoying summer weather and holidays and
we hope you are visiting lot of interesting places in the world to get
inspiration.

Nevertheless, work on Lintouch is continuing successfully.

Patrik has been experimenting with SVG[1] (Scalable Vector Graphics) format
and its support within Qt library. SVG is very popular format within the
Linux Desktop community. Both major Linux desktops KDE[2] and Gnome[3] use
SVG to draw icons. The icons can be smoothly scaled, because SVG is vector
format in its very nature.

Patrik has found out that SVG is supported in Qt by default and quickly
coded _SVGTemplate_ which is able to display SVG images on Lintouch panels.
The code has been kept in the private CVS for now but we plan to release it
along with upcoming Lintouch 1.2.

  1. http://www.w3.org/TR/SVG/
  2. http://www.kde.org
  3. http://www.gnome.org

Lintouch Project has been presented during the third week of June at the
AUTOMATICA 2004 fair in Muenchen, Germany. SWAC booth was 90% of the time
full of interesting people.

Development of new stable version of Lintouch 1.2 has started right after
the fair. Necessary changes and new features has been summarized[4] and
coding style document for the project was prepared[5] so that more people
can easily join in.

  4. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2004-June/000558.html
  5. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2004-June/000556.html

The freeze date for 1.2 release has been set to September 1st and release
date to October 1st. The main objective of this release is to stabilize
the Runtime and the Server while introducing only small amount of new
features and to make huge progress on the Editor, the third remaining key
piece of the Lintouch Architecture.

Heinz Haeberle from Pilz international[6] reported the successful
compilation and setup[7] of Lintouch on the StrongARM based device running
Debian Sarge. He faced several problems with fonts rendering and CPU power
consumption but we are all happy to hear that this was possible.

  6. http://www.pilz.de
  7. http://lintouch.org/pipermail/lintouch-dev/2004-July/000565.html

Work has already started on Lintouch Editor 1.2. The editor (as in version
1.0) will be freely available with certain limitations but not open source
and will include many many more new features for Lintouch Project editing.

And last but not least the maintenance release of Lintouch Runtime version
1.0.3 and other supporting libraries has been made silently on Friday July
30th. This release includes several accumulated bug fixes and is planned to
be the last release of 1.0 series of Lintouch. Server and its dependent
libraries however contain several important bugs[8] which has yet to be
hunted down before their maintenance release can be made.

  8. http://www.lintouch.org/bugzilla/buglist.cgi?product=Lintouch&bug_status=NEW&bug_status=ASSIGNED&bug_status=REOPENED

That's all folks for this week, if you have any comments, corrections or
ideas to be published, feel free to contact me directly[0].

  0. mailto:mman@swac.cz.

vim: set et tw=76:
$Id: ldwn-2004-07-31.txt,v 1.1 2004/07/31 09:45:57 mman Exp $
