---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Lintouch 1.0 Release Announcement
http://lintouch.org
March 4th, 2004
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[...after six months of development and according to the schedule...]

It's my great privilege to announce on behalf of the Lintouch Development
Team the immediate availability of the Lintouch 1.0 opensource real-time
visual control center application.

Lintouch is a monitoring/controlling software developed as the alternative
to pure-hardware based control panels used mainly in automation industry.
It's oriented towards low-cost embedded and industrial computers equipped
with touch screens and single-purpose keyboards.

Lintouch is being developed as the opensource application distributed under
the General Public License version 2 (GPL2). It's operating system and
machine architecture independent, currently it runs on Linux/i386 and
Windows/i386, preliminary tests with great results has been made to run it
on Linux/powerpc and Linux/arm.

Lintouch is modeled after the server-client pattern. Server controls the
real-world system, gathers the data and serves them to one or more Runtimes.
Runtimes through the Server obtain the necessary data to visualize and
control the real-world system. How the data should be obtained and altered
and how they should be visualized is described by set of configuration files
which, when put together, form a Lintouch Project.

Lintouch Modular architecture allows its users to write their own Server
Plugins which define how the real-world system is accessed. Users can also
write their own Visualization and Controlling Primitives (called Templates)
that easily extend the functionality of a Runtime.

To find out more, see the screenshots, download and try the code, please go
to the Lintouch Website[1]. Point-and-click installers are available for
Microsoft Windows 2000/XP and precompiled binary packages are available
for Debian/GNU Linux 3.0 (sarge) and Debian/GNU Linux unstable (sid).

    1. http://lintouch.org

The 1.0 branch represents the stable, production release. Only bugfixes will
propagate to 1.0.x making it a suitable platform for mission-critical usage.
Next stable release will be numbered 1.2 and is scheduled for the September
1st 2004.

Work on new/experimental features will continue within the 1.1 branch, which
is considered to be "experimental". Lintouch 1.1.x releases are not planned
in advance and will be made as required.

vim: set et tw=76:
$Id: lintouch-1.0.txt,v 1.1 2004/03/04 20:45:22 mman Exp $
