
                      Lintouch, the opensource HMI
                          http://lintouch.org
                    ================================

1. What is Lintouch
-------------------
Lintouch is an opensource HMI software. It lets you design user
interfaces for process automation. Lintouch runs on most popular
hardware and software platforms, is lightweight and easily extensible.

Lintouch architecture allows you to develop your own connectivity
plugins and visualization objects.

2. Installing Lintouch from binaries
------------------------------------

Latest stable release of Lintouch is always available in binary format for
various operating systems (Windows and Linux always supported). To
download binaries for your operating system please visit
http://lintouch.org/static/download.html.

3. Installing Lintouch from sources
-----------------------------------

Lintouch can be compiled easily from sources under a unix-like operating
system using the magic triple:

$ ./configure
$ make
$ make install

This sequence will install all Lintouch related files into the default
prefix /usr/local. You can change this by invoking:

$ ./configure --prefix=/my/path

Note that Lintouch installs several shared libraries and your linker
must be able to find them. If you install Lintouch to a non-system
directory, follow ld.so(8) manual page to set up LD_LIBRARY_PATH,
LD_RUN_PATH, or /etc/ld.so.conf properly. Please adopt these
instructions accordingly if you are using other unix-like (but not
linux) operating system. In our example above:

$ export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/my/path/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH

will indicate that the ld.so linker should look for shared libraries
also into /my/path/lib.

3.1 Prerequisites
------------------

In order to compile lintouch from sources you will need several external
packages to be installed. Please install them in the following order:

(the following ones should be part of your distribution)

  1. pkg-config: http://www.freedesktop.org/software/pkgconfig/
  2. CppUnit: http://cppunit.sf.net
  3. Doxygen: http://www.doxygen.org
  4. APR: http://apr.apache.org
  5. Qt: http://www.trolltech.com/qt

4. Getting involved
-------------------

Lintouch is an opensource project and community effort and we always
welcome feedback, bug reports and feature requests. If you want to get
involved or just observe how Lintouch is progressing, feel free to join
our discussion at IRC or via mailing lists. The detailed instructions
can be found at http://lintouch.org.

vim: set et tw=72:
